Okay, speaking of scope CSS,
let's talk about CSS modules.
So if we wanted to create CSS modules,
it's the same thing as next JS 12,
nothing has really changed.
So for instance, I have this component,
I have a button anywhere,
I'm just gonna do it here.
I can say button.module.CSS.
If I use a .module.CSS.,
this creates what's called a CSS module.
CSS module is not
something next Jas created.
I wouldn't say it's a standard well,
I guess now it is a like standard in the
community about how to make CSS modules,
but it's basically exactly what it
sounds like, it's like CSS as a module.
So what is the module nozzles like?
A scoped, independent piece of code that
can't be compromised by some other piece
of code because it's scoped, it's not
global, and that's what a CSS module is.
It basically, when imported will
randomize and generate class names,
that you can use inside of your components
so they're guaranteed to be unique and
never collide with each other.
There are other ways to make scoped CSS
using browser API's like Shadow DOM and
things like that but this is just
randomizing class names for you which does
the same thing, well, it doesn't do the
same thing but you get the same effect.
So the way you would write that is,
I can make any class I want.
Let's see I'm have a button class,
and I can write some CSS for it.
Whatever I want here.
I'll be like that, and then with the same
name with the class that I have,
first I'll import,
I have to import the styles and
typically you see something like
this styles from button.module.css.
And then this is gonna be an object, and
the properties on these objects are gonna
be the class names in the file.
So it'll be styles.button.
If I had another class in here it
will be styles dot that class.
So each property, each declaration has
a property on the styles objects, and
then I can just apply
it to wherever I want.
So in this case, I can say class name is
gonna be whatever styles.button classes.
And that's gonna be the generated class
name that the build system will generate
for this.
So it's scoped, so
what the browser sees and
what the component sees is not button,
it sees 01567,
whatever the class name that got created,
and we're just putting it here.
So that's that's how the modules work.
Yes.
>> Could you style divs for instance,
all divs and
then would it be styles that div?
>> So
you mean just like a tag name like this?
>> Yeah.
>> Would it be styles actually,
I've never tried to do a tag name before.
I would argue you don't
start all this [LAUGH].
>> [LAUGH]
>> I would say don't do that.
Instead, what you
probably wanna do is use,
so what you can do is you can do
something common like that and
then you might have something like div
one and then you can say can you go?
Thank you.
You can say my God, go away,
composes, common, you do that.
And CSS module, that's not regular CSS,
but the CSS modules, you can do that.
So this will, like,
inherit the stuff here, and
then you can make all
these divs that you want.
Yeah, but yeah,
probably don't style all your divs.
Just dial IDs.
Yeah, you just dial IDs.
Pretty sure it's the same thing.
So if I said item.
My god, thank you, okay.
And then you can go and
I'm pretty sure it's just the same thing.
>> I can't remember,
does Next.js support SAS out of the box or
is there some other libraries
you need to import?
Or like maybe Tailwind or some like that?
>> So there's support for Tailwind,
it's actually quite simple to set up.
If you go to the Tailwind docs, they'll
walk you, I mean, there really is no
setup, for Tailwind, you only really have
to add the directives at the top of your
global file like @tellwinbase,
@tellwinutils, and there's a third one.
And then you set up your
tellwin config and you're done.
There's really nothing
else you have to do.
There's nothing special about it.
As far as SaaS, it does support SaaS.
You just have to install SaaS yourself,
cuz it doesn't install it,
I think you have to tell next JS is
config that you want to use Sass,
which basically is like extending the
bundler that is using which depending on
what version of next Jas you're using.
And what flags you passed next as JS using
Webpack or you're using, they're rusty
one and now they have this even newer
one that's like super, like on the edge.
We're not even using that one but
that was really cool.
And yeah, I just need to tell that thing.
Hey, I wanna use Sass now.
So it does support those things but
I used to use a lot of.
Whats the one that I use?
I use stylus.
I really liked stylus and then at some
point, I just stopped using them.
And I'm trying to remember what happened.
I think I moved into CSS and JS.
I just stopped using them.
But now I'm kind of moving back to
writing CSS in the files with modules and
things like that because it's just
easier with server components.
Doing CSS and JS with server components,
it is a huge undertaking and it's a lot of
work to do that and that's why I'm not
talking about it here but yeah of course.
>> Regarding Tailwind CSS shout out
to Brian Holt Intermediate React v5
which just launched,
it's got a section on tailwind CSS.
And that course is modular.
So you can just do that
lesson if you want.
>> Yeah.
And it will work.
Whatever he says in that course
will work for next year.
So there's nothing specific to next
JS that you have to do for tailwind.
>> I believe you can pass
the create next tab, a flag,
like example with tailwind and
they'll just do that simple setup for you.
>> Yeah, I used to really not tailwind
because I don't know I always just
like look at it and if I got to sit
down and learn all these classes,
I might as well just use a component
library that's already styled,
cuz it's the same amount
of time as learning.
But then I started using
component libraries and
all the work I needed to get them
to look the way that I wanted.
And I was like,
I need something a little more raw.
So then I actually landed on
something called Headless UIs,
which Tailwind actually made
a library called Headless UI.
It's like a component library that has
no style and it's meant to be styled but
it has pure functionality and then you can
add whatever styles you want to that and
I was like, okay now tailwind makes sense
because I really just want a component
library that had no style but
was functional.
And then I can add
Tailwind classes to that.
But the missing piece for me was how
to create variants based off props.
And then I found this library that allows
you to create variants really easily.
So combining all three of those, I was
like, all right, Tailwind's amazing, but
only if I use it in that way.
So I still don't like the fact that
I gotta look up all these classes.
I also don't like looking in JSX and
seeing super long class names everywhere.
It's really annoying cuz I
think it's just distracting.
But I have to admit,
tailwind is a really cool library and
it does have really good styles,
so I like it.
So just a little rant about
me hating on tailwind,
but I think they're dope,
sorry tailwind, cool.
Any other questions on styling?
The only other one that I want to
cover with styling was basically,
how to use third-party styles.
So if you installed some styling off
of NPM like bootstrap or reset CSS,
how do you import that other than
Tailwind because Tailwind is different?
Because by the way,
Tailwind is not a CSS lib.
Did you know that?
Like I thought it was just a CSS lib.
It's not a CSS lib.
So a JavaScript library and
the CSS is generated and
it looks at your class name statically.
At, runtime to determine
what CSS to generate.
It's really advanced.
I did not know that I thought I went to
go look at the source code, I was like,
where's the CSS file?
And it was it.
I was like, wait,
it's not a CSS libraries it's JavaScript.
And then I was like, okay, this is
a really cool, I kind of like this.
So, yeah, and that's why you can't use
interpolation in your class names for
tailwind values,
because the just in time compiler,
can't interpolate those values,
they have to statically see them.
I'm like, this is actually really cool.
So, I was really impressed.
I think that was the selling point for me.
But yeah, so I mean importing other stuff
is very similar to importing global CSS.
Honestly, you just import it like this.
If it's from NPM,
you just import it like this, that's it.
Just put it in the layout though.
Import it in your layouts,
hopefully your layouts cuz it's global.
If it's not global, it should be a module,
and imported in that file, that's it.
Now if you wanna use something like
styled components or something like that,
that's a little more advanced with server
components, it's actually quite involved.
So stay tuned to my full stack course that
we'll be working on that when we walk
through that,
cuz it is actually quite involved and
there's a lot going on there to get
it to work with server components.
You basically have to combine all the CSS
that's generated from stock components
yourself and create your own style sheet
on demand on the server and render that.
It's a lot of work,
I didn't wanna do that, [LAUGH] today.